We've already used functions in the previous videos.
Now let's go ahead and define functions using the basic syntax so the semantics of most of this stuff
will be already clear to you.
But we're going to see how Julia approaches this.
So let's first define a basic function.
So for that, you use the key word function and you end the function by using the keyword.
So that's how Julia defines blocks within the function.
You can have multiple lines.
Indentation is not important, obviously, for blocks.
One important difference to note over here is that we don't necessarily need a return statement over
here.
If you say X into X, this is going to be the last line that is going to be executed when this function
is called.
So this value of X into X is going to be automatically returned.
You have the parameter X over here and we can go ahead and call this function.
So let's first define this.
And then we can go ahead and call this using square four and this is going to return the value.
So you don't need the return couverture here, but it's still a good practice to include it just to
make your code a little more readable.
OK, it depends on who you ask.
Some people prefer it and some people say it should be without the return.
It depends on who you ask, but personally, I prefer to have a written statement.
OK, so we have the square function.
You will notice that we don't have a data type over here.
So it's implicit.
So if you have hello name and we simply print the value of it here, we can go ahead and call hello
with the string parameter.
So it's going to print their world.
We can also posit an integer.
So this is obviously going to work perfectly fine because name can hold any different data.
We can even create a matrix over here using round function and pass that to hello.
And that is still going to work.
So anything will print as long as it can be converted into the string.
Right.
So this works perfectly fine.
So this is probably stuff that you're already familiar with.
We're just looking at the syntax that Julia provides for this.
But now we get to some of the stuff that is different in Julia.
So, for instance, you can define One-Liner functions using this syntax of defining the function,
name and parameters in parenthesis is equal to and then the one line of function body that is going
to return the value of the function.
Right.
So it's much easier to just demonstrate this Sahaba.
You can do X by two.
If you run that, you get a function back, which is going to be called hover and it's going to take
one argument.
So another five is going to return obviously five by two, which is a rational number.
So this body is going to be returned to you.
So this is very useful when you have One-Liner functions and it makes your code look very similar to
mathematics, which, as we saw in the previous video, is one of the objectives of Julias index.
OK, whenever we have functions which try to modify stuff by convention, we append an exclamation mark
to the function name.
So we've seen this before.
Let's go ahead and take a look at this again, just for the sake of completeness.
So we have an array named V over here.
We can go ahead and call this sort function on it.
It's going to sort it, but you will notice that V remains the same.
The reason for that is it does not mutate the variable that you pass to it.
OK.
However, there is a variation of sort which ends with a bang, and that is a mutating function, which
means that if you pass, we do this start with a bang, it's going to actually modify.
So this is very pervasive in Julia.
Whenever you have functions which end with a bang.
They are going to mutate or they may mutate your variables.
OK, so that should be fairly straightforward.
OK, we can also have overloaded methods.
So this is slightly different from what you might be familiar with if you come from Python.
This is very common in type languages such as Java and C++ and C, so let's explain this using an example.
So you have a function called show number and it's going to print the value of the integer that you
password, because I've just told you that this function is going to work on an integer.
We can define the data type of the parameter as an integer 64, so a 64 bit integer.
So the syntax for that is you say Escalon Colon in 64.
So that means that this X can only hold an integer 64 or in 64, 64 word integer if you try to posit
anything else.
This is not going to work, so let's try and do that.
So you define the function, you get the function back, you can call it using your number 65.
This works perfectly well, but if you try to posit a float, this is not going to work because a a
float is not an integer.
So it cannot go into X because X has to be in 64.
Moreover, float cannot be promoted to an integer.
Right.
So that's very important.
If this was a if we had defined this X as a float and we had tried to posit an integer, that would
have worked because integers can be promoted to floats, but floats are higher up in the hierarchy than
integers, so they cannot be converted into integers automatically.
So if you try to do that, you'll get an error.
And it's very prudent right now to take a look at the errors.
So the error says method error, no method matching show, no Kalanchoe don't float.
So what this says is you're trying to call a function which is called show number and you're trying
to pass a float to it.
And there is no method that is available that accepts a float.
No method names show number which accepts afloat.
So what we can do is we can go ahead and define such a function.
So now we are going to define another number and in it we are going to have the same number of arguments,
which is X, except this time the data type of X is going to be a flawed 64.
Right.
So we can define this function and now we can call number with an integer, actual number with a float
as well.
And you will notice that these are two completely different functions.
So this body has nothing to do with this body, even though the names of both the functions are the
same.
OK, so the first one is printing this and the second one is putting this, but they have the same name.
The way this works in Judea is you have what are called functions.
So show number is a function and it has two methods.
Right.
So show number has two methods for this generic function.
No one takes a flawed 64 and the other takes in in 64.
Right.
This is called function overloading.
If you come from Java or C++ or C or any of the strictly type languages, you would know what function
overloading is.
So this comes in very handy when you try to apply a function such as plus on different data types.
So, for instance, adding two matrices has different logic.
Adding two vectors has different logic.
Adding to complex numbers has different logic.
So all of these logics you don't have to worry about, all you will do is call the plus function and
the methods are going to be automatically matched by Julia.
So the reason for doing this is this speeds up the performance of the different function calls because
you can specify different logic for different types of data that you can have.
And that makes the life of the compiler very easy.
And that, in turn means that your code is going to run much faster.
So this is how internally Julia speeds things up and this is very important, but it's slightly advanced
topics.
So we're not going to go more into detail.
I just show you the methods that are available for the generic function.
Plus.
So plus is simply a function.
Nothing important going on over here.
So plus I can work on two float's.
It can work on two 16 because it can work on a complex boolean and a boolean.
It can work with complex boolean and real, it can work even with two missing values.
And there are a huge number of things that plus can do depending on the data type.
And whenever you write plus for instance, two plus four, one of these is going to be hard and there
is a hierarchy going on.
So if you have a function which does not have a particular method for digitizer, a method in a higher
level of the hierarchy can be.
So for the moment, that's all that you need to understand.
When we get to more details of this, we're going to take a look at the specifics of how they are implemented
in machine learning and data science when we get to that.
Right.
So this is all you need to understand for the moment.
So let's go ahead and take a look at some of the other concepts, such as default values.
So let's again explain this using an example.
So, for instance, if you call log of it, it's all by default in mathematics.
Whenever you say log, you mean natural log rates, a log to the base e if you don't know what logs
are, it's not really important.
It's just a mathematical function that is very useful in a lot of things.
But for the moment, all you need to understand is that this function actually has a hidden parameter
in it.
So log of it to the base of what?
So that word by default is e so the mathematical constant.
But you can change that, for instance, in computer science, we are usually concerned with lock to
the base, too, so you can call log of the same number eight, but to the base, too, and this is
going to give you three back.
Right.
So essentially, if you raise two to the three, you get eight.
If you raise it to the two point or seven, you get eight.
So that's how log works.
So what we're trying to do over here is understand how this works, that the same function can work
on different number of parameters.
In the previous example, we saw how you can have a method for different data types and here we are
taking a look at different methods for different number of parameters.
OK, so that is how this works.
These are called default values.
So for that, let's take an example that we are going to pass a collection or a sequence of numbers
to this collection log function, and it's going to calculate the log for all of these numbers.
Right.
So this index is fairly straightforward.
You're going to pursue the collection and you're going to posit a base.
And that base by default is going to be too.
Right.
You can call log base, i.e. for high end collections.
So for all of the values that are passed, which you calculate the log to the base.
So let's run this so we have a function, we can call this.
We can see a collection log 48, 16 and do the best 10.
So this is going to return.
Forty six point nine and one point four, we can go ahead and commit DBAs, and this is going to now
use the default value of two.
So if you've come from Python, you would be familiar with these default values.
But in Julia, there are slight differences.
And that is what we're going to take a look at now.
For instance, if you have base is equal to do over here, you cannot have a parameter that does not
have a default value coming after.
So all the parameters which have a default value have to go at the end.
Right.
So you have to change collection, comma, equal to as we defined over here.
You cannot have them the other way around.
If you try to do that, you're going to get an error.
So optional positional arguments must occur at end.
So it's fairly straightforward.
However, if you do need optional parameters at the beginning, you can separate your positional arguments
and your keyword based arguments.
So you can have basically to do this is going to be a positional argument and this is going to be a
keyword, this argument.
So you can call this this works perfectly fine.
Notice the difference here.
We have a comma here.
We have a semicolon.
So these are now two different types.
These are going to be positional.
So you can pass them without having to refer to their name.
But this collection over here now has to be passed using its name.
So if you try to do this, this is going to give you an error.
It says keyword argument collection is not a sign you might be expecting that basically to use default.
So base is going to take on the value, too.
And the only argument that I'm passing over here would go in collection.
But that's not how Julia works.
The way this works is anything after the semicolon has to be explicitly specified.
So you have to say collection is equal to four, eight, 16, and now this is going to work perfectly
fine.
You can also pass then over here.
So this is going to go into base.
So everything works out perfectly well.
I personally would not recommend that you try to do this in your own code, but I've covered this here
because you are going to see other people's code, which is going to use this syntax.
So you should be aware of this minor inconvenience of going from one language to another.
So that's all you need to understand for now, as before, once you've covered all the syntax, we are
going to take a look at applications of this in data science and machine learning, and this will become
a lot more clear.
OK, so in the next video, we are going to take a look at another type of functions which are very
pervasive in Julia.
And you might not have looked at them before.
Even if you have, we have to take a look at how Julia approaches them.
So let's take a look at that in the next video.